in this video I'll share an approach
which makes the process of learning data
science actually very easy if you have
spent any time learning data science you
would know that data science is a very
vast field where you have to cover a lot
of topics including programming SQL
statistics probability and much more and
for most people this becomes a very
difficult task since I've been a data
science student myself for over 10 years
having learn data science from books
courses tutorials and most importantly
working on some real life projects at
companies like meta Cisco Wells Fargo I
wanted to share my thoughts based on my
years of experience what's the easiest
path to learn data science but before I
go to that I wanted to share a little
bit of my story of how I try to learn
data science what are the mistakes I
made and then hopefully it'll make much
more sense to you when I share what I
think is the easiest path to learn data
science I did my bachelors in
telecomunication engineering Having
learned almost nothing related to data
science I had learned a little bit of
programming and based on that and a
little bit of my own learning I started
my career as a software engineer and
later on when I wanted to switch to data
science I took some courses in the
Masters related to data science and also
learned from some courses tutorials Etc
and with that knowledge I was able to
get my initial job as a junior data
scientist but I knew that my knowledge
of data science it was very basic and if
I have to be successful in this career
then I have to learn a lot more so with
that in mind I started started thinking
that how I can learn more of data
science so that I become very good in
this field and the initial approach
which I decided on I called that as
top-down approach of learning and the
basic idea behind topdown approach of
learning is that you try to understand
that what is needed for most day-to-day
task and based on that I started
developing my expertise around it 10
years ago we didn't had a lot of fancy
ml tools as we have today and most of
the development around data science and
ml was done using pandas and PSY it
learn so I thought if I could become
really good using these two libraries
then I can consider myself a very
successful and a very knowledgeable data
scientist so with that in mind I went to
Panda's website and also pych learn
website and I printed all of their
documentation it became these Hefty
almost a big book size prints and then I
started going through them trying to
make a sense of it for pandas it did
work because pandas is sort of like SQL
and most of the commands that
documentation had were mainly around how
you can cury and transform the data but
when I started learning psychic learn
using this method I very soon realized
this approach won't work and the main
reason was that when I started going
through the pages of psychic learn
documentation they were mentioning a lot
of mathematics and the foundations of
machine learning which I did not had a
lot of knowledge around so with that
Foundation missing I realized that I
just cannot go through psyit learn
documentation and fully understand it so
my initial thought of starting from top
and going towards bottom didn't actually
work then I thought okay if the top-
down approach is not working then let me
try the bottom up approach so for that I
started going towards what is the
foundations of machine learning and I
started going through statistics books
linear algebra books calculus books and
having spent 3 4 months into it learning
a lot of Concepts around calculus and
linear algebra and statistics and
probability I realized I was trying to
do some very complex integration
calculation and how does that help in
any way me becoming a better data
scientist because those complex
calculations had no relationship in what
I was trying to do on a day-to-day basis
on my data science job so then I
abandoned that approach as well and
realize that this bottom up approach
unless you have a very clearly defined
path on how much deep you want to go
also is not a very feasible bun because
there is a lot of dependencies between
probability and statistics and machine
learning and linear algebra Etc and when
you try to learn everything it becomes a
never-ending project so having failed at
both the top- down approach and the
bottom up approach then I spoke with a
lot of senior mentors and try to see
what is the most optimal way to learn
data science and this is the approach
I'm going to share with you in this
video the basic premise of this approach
is similar to the top down method which
is that you start with the end in mind
and and we lay out what is needed to a
have enough knowledge that you can crack
most data science interviews and B have
enough knowledge that you can succeed in
your job as a data scientist once you
crack the interviews so coming to the
first one how can you have enough
knowledge that you can crack most of the
interviews if you look closely at most
of the data science interviews they are
around basic knowledge of programming
basic knowledge of SQL you should have a
fundamental understanding of probability
and statistics and you should have an
intuitive understanding of 10 to 15 most
frequently used machine learning
algorithms like decision trees linear
regression Etc and nowadays since
companies are asking for Gen you should
have some basic understanding around
prompt engineering what is the basic
mechanism around Transformers attention
mechanism Etc and some understanding
about the embeddings of these large
language models and the good thing is
that with a curated learning path
learning these Concepts at a depth that
you can answer at least 90 to 95% of the
interview questions it's not hard you
have to develop enough expertise in
Python that you can solve an easy lead
code question you should know enough
python that you can write some basic
functions you have basic understanding
of python frequently used libraries like
Panda psychic learn which I previously
mentioned and now car tensor flow or py
torch any of these ideally pytorch and
then nowadays some understanding of how
Lang chain works and that is pretty much
you need for python for SQL you should
have a good understanding of 10 to 15
most frequently used SQL commands for
statistics and probability if you just
cover the topics given in the book
practical statistics for data scientists
I think this is enough for you to be
able to answer 90 to 95% of the
questions which are asked in data
science interviews and then for Gen if
you have some watched some videos around
how does the Transformers work what is
the attenion mechanism and then how can
you use Lang chain to build rag
applications that is pretty much all you
need to crack most of the data science
interviews now if you're applying for
contract roles then you need to know a
little bit of what are the tools they
needed because a lot of contract roles
they want you to be handson from day one
Whatever tools they're using if you
could prepare a little bit understanding
of that that will really help you for
contract roles and then if you're
applying for Fang companies then you
have to go a little deep on your
programming skills because that is a
very essential component of all ml roles
there I know it still isn't very easy
but with the focused preparation of 4 to
6 months depending on what your starting
point is I think you should be in a very
good position that you should be able to
answer 90% plus questions in most of the
interviews there is a component of luck
in all interviews but preparation wise I
think you should be very close and then
when it comes to the point of how you
can succeed in your data today jobs if
you have the basic understanding of what
I've covered to crack the interviews and
then you have dedication and good soft
skills which is mainly communication
then I have no doubt that with
dedication plus good communication and
the knowledge you have acquired to crack
the interviews there is no way that you
will not do good in your day-to-day job
so the gist of the matter is that you
have to be very thoughtful in terms of
what learning path you use so that you
do not spend a lot of time trying to
solve some complex calculus or linear
regression or linear algebra problems
which have no relevance to your
day-to-day data science job I've shared
in the description the road map guide
which I usually recommend to people in
terms of what they should be learning
and from where they should be learning
it the link is in the description also I
just created this video around what are
the four books if you read them from end
to end they cover most of these topics
which I have briefly mentioned in this
video the link for that video is
somewhere here please check it out I'm
pretty sure you like it and it will help
you a lot in terms of getting ready for
your data science interviews thank you
so much for watching